Bernie Mac:
I had a white guy tell me, he said, "Bern...Why do black
people always use the word motherfucker?" Well, I'm going to
break down what the word "motherfucker" actually means.
"Motherfucker" is something that black folks (have) been
using for years. It's about expression. Don't be ashamed of
the word "motherfucker".
Cos the word "motherfucker" is a noun. It describes a
person, place or thing.
(audience laughs) You know when you hear black folk, we
loud.
That's our defense mechanism. We loud, we talk aggressive,
you know? (gibberish) You know, we ain't gonna do nothing to
you. We ain't gonna do nothing to you. You know, we'll tell
you in a minute, you know? I'll blow this motherfucker up,
you know? You ain't never known a black terrorist in a day
of your life. You ain't never known a black man to blow up a
goddamn thing. First of all, where he gonna buy the dynamite
from, and from who? The first time he tried to buy some
dynamite, he going to jail like a motherfucker. It's just
expression! I had a guy, man... when you...when white
people, when you... when you see my people and you see 'em
in a social place, you see 'em in the mall, you see 'em in
the bowling alley, and you might see three or four brothers
together. You might hear the word motherfucker 32 times. And
you might hear just two regular English words. But the
conversation makes sense like a motherfucker. Everybody can
understand it. Don't be afraid of the word "motherfucker".
I'm gonna break it down to you. If you out there this
afternoon, you see about three or four brothers talking, you
might hear a conversation and it go like this. You seen that
motherfucker Bobby? That motherfucker owe me 35
motherfucking dollars. He told me he (was) gonna pay my
motherfucking money last motherfucking week. I ain't seen
this motherfucker yet. I'm not gonna chase this motherfucker
for my 35 motherfucking dollars. I called the motherfucker
four motherfucking times. But the motherfucker won't call me
back. I called his mama the other motherfucking day. She
gonna play like the motherfucker wasn't in. I started to
cuss her motherfucking ass out but I want no motherfucking
trouble. But I'll tell you one motherfucking thing, the next
motherfucking time I see this motherfucker and he ain't got
my motherfucking money, I'm gon' bust his motherfucking
head. And I'm out this motherfucker!
Tony Kaizen:
What's up, my friend? I hope you are doing well today. If
this is your first time listening to the podcast then I'd
like to welcome you to your life in English. My name is Tony
Kaizen and I'm here to help you learn real spoken English in
a practical way. Now the clip you just heard was of the late
and great and legendary stand-up comedian Bernie Mac,
representing the Southside of Chicago, Illinois. Now, in
this clip, Bernie explains how to use the English word
"motherfucker", just like a native. But don't worry, if you
couldn't understand everything he said because he was
speaking in a very colloquial way and speaking very fast,
right? But now, I'm gonna go back and explain not only
Bernie's words, but also the culture behind his words to
make sure you really understand everything he said in the
clip, alright? Let's get started.
Bernie Mac:
I had a white guy tell me, he said, "Bern... Why do black
people always use the word motherfucker?
Tony Kaizen:
Now I'm stopping here because I'm sure some people might be
asking themselves, "Why does he feel the need to refer to
people's skin color at a time like this?" He said, "A white
guy asked me why do black people always use the word
motherfucker?" Well, you got to remember that after slavery
was abolished in this country, black and white people were
still segregated by law for an entire century. And that
means for 100 years, black and white people lived in
separate neighborhoods, went to separate schools, played at
separate parks, rode on separate buses, and even went to
separate jails. It was literally against the law for these
two groups of people to interact with each other in their
daily lives. As a result, two distinct cultures started to
develop here in the US — 'Black American culture' and 'White
American culture'. And this is where things can get
controversial because everyone has a different opinion about
what I just said and everyone will describe the situation in
their own way. The topic of black and white in this country
is hard to explain because there's so much history behind it
and even I am not familiar with all of it. This is just
uneducated opinion, okay? But for now, the only thing you
need to understand is that 100 years of racial segregation
led us to having two distinct dialects of spoken English
here in the US — Standard English, which is what most people
speak and understand across the country and Ebonics, also
known as Black English or African American vernacular
English. And this dialect is predominantly spoken by Black
Americans.
And that's why there are times when some white people
literally can't understand what black people are saying
because they're not familiar with the dialect, especially 20
years ago when this clip was recorded. And that's why Bernie
is speaking to the crowd as if it were two groups of people
— white people and black people. And you'll hear him explain
the way black people behave because he knows some white
people just don't understand it. Now, it's important to
remember that I'm generalizing here, and so was Bernie. I
think we make very general statements when speaking about
race in this country because it's easier for us to express
ourselves that way. But not all black people think and talk
and behave the same. And not all white people think and talk
and behave the same way, obviously. And we could go much,
much deeper into that topic. But I'm just trying to help you
understand the culture behind the words being said here,
because that's the only way you can truly understand what
he's communicating, alright? But let's get back to the clip.
Bernie Mac:
You know when you hear black folk, we loud. That's our
defense mechanism, We...we're loud, we talk aggressive, you
know? (gibberish) You know, we ain't gonna do nothing to
you. We ain't gonna do nothing to you. You know, we'll tell
you in a minute, you know? I'll blow this motherfucker up,
you know?
Tony Kaizen:
Alright, I'm stopping here because Bernie mentioned an
interesting cultural observation. A common stereotype of
black Americans is that we're very loud, angry, aggressive
people, right? And Bernie's saying there's no need to fear
black people's loud and aggressive behavior. It's just a
form of self-defense. It's our way of showing that we're
confident in ourselves and we're not afraid of anyone, which
is something that's very important in the black community,
especially if you're a man. Showing confidence and playfully
talking shit is just one of those cultural behaviors that
shouldn't be taken so seriously. I believe that's what he's
communicating.
Bernie Mac:
You know when you hear black folk, we loud. That's our
defense mechanism. We...we're loud, we talk aggressive, you
know? (gibberish) You know, we ain't gonna do nothing to
you. We ain't gonna do nothing to you. You know, we'll tell
you in a minute, you know? I'll blow this motherfucker up,
you know? You ain't never known a black terrorist in a day
of your life. You ain't never known a black man to blow up a
goddamn thing. First of all, where he gonna buy the dynamite
from, and from who? The first time we tried to buy some
dynamite, he going to jail like a motherfucker.
Tony Kaizen:
Alright, let me stop here and explain a couple of key things
about this part of the clip. The first one is "I'll blow
this motherfucker up". Bernie said, um, you know, you
shouldn't be worried about the aggressive, loud way that
some black people talk. It's just a defense mechanism,
right? You might hear a black person say, "I'll blow this
motherfucker up, you know?" And to "blow something up" means
to make something explode, right? With a bomb or some
dynamite, something like that. And "motherfucker" in this
case is... is being used to say place because remember
"motherfucker" mean - is a person, place or thing. So when
somebody says, "I'll blow this motherfucker up." They're
saying, "I'll blow this place up." And this is like, uh,
it's like a cultural thing. That's hard to explain. But you
might hear especially, you know, a black person from my
parents' generation or my grandparents' generation, you
know, it was a common thing. Even today, though, you know,
some people will just make these empty threats knowing that
they don't really mean it but it just sounds good when you
say it, right? It just sounds good to say in an argument, in
a misunderstanding, in an altercation in some public place.
And you want to seem like a badass. You want to seem like
you're not afraid, that you're crazy. "I'll blow this
motherfucker up. Don't play with me!" You know, just like, I
don't know if that makes sense to you, but it's...it's an
empty threat. You're obviously not going to blow up the
fucking building. It's just something that people say. So
hopefully that makes sense to you now. The second thing I
want to explain was, uh, the word "goddamn" in this case,
because Bernie said, you ain't never known a black man to
blow up a goddamn thing. And "goddamn", in this case is
being used to put emphasis on whatever's being said after
that. In this case, the word thing, you ain't never known a
black man to blow up a goddamn thing. It's just a stronger
way of saying you've never heard of a black man blowing up
anything, you know? And he's not mad in this case. It's not
why he's saying goddamn. Again, it's just emphasis. Um, but
obviously, you're not going to speak this way with people
you don't really know. You're not going to speak this way at
work and stuff like that, you know? Now, the last thing from
this part of the clip was alright "like a motherfucker". He
said, um, the first time he tried to buy some dynamite, he
going to jail like a motherfucker and "like a motherfucker"
in this case is also being used to put emphasis on whatever
was just said. So in this case, if he going to jail like a
motherfucker, it's like he's definitely going to jail. He's
certainly going to jail. No doubt. No question. He going to
jail like a motherfucker. He just put an emphasis on that
fact that he's certainly going to jail. Or you might hear
somebody say, like, let's imagine I...I stubbed my toe on a
coffee table or something and it hurts really bad. I say,
"Damn, that hurt like a motherfucker." It just means it
really, really hurt. I mean, it hurt really bad. "Shit, hurt
like a motherfucker, man." Hopefully that makes sense.
It's...I mean, this is, like, just a colloquial way of
speaking that doesn't always make literal sense. So
hopefully, at least with these explanations, it's a bit more
clear and you can follow the clip, uh, better than before.
But anyway, anyway, let's get back to the clip, my friend.
Bernie Mac:
I had a guy, man... when you, when white people, when you,
when you see my people and you see 'em in the social place,
you see 'em in the mall, you see 'em in the bowling alley,
and you might see three or four brothers together and you
might hear the word motherfucker 32 times.
Tony Kaizen:
Alright. Now, notice how Bernie said when you see three or
four brothers. Now the word "brother" in this case is being
used colloquially to say "man". So when you see three or
four men standing on the corner. But you should know that
this type of thing is becoming less and less common. Like
you typically hear people from my dad's generation speaking
in this way. Kids from the Fortnite generation don't
typically refer to their peers as brother or sister like,
"Hey, you see that young brother right there?" or "What's
going on, sister?" Like, we don't really refer to each other
in that way these days - not young people anyway. But it is,
um, still common like I'll...I'll speak that way sometimes
and people from my dad's and grandfather's generation
definitely. This is something they would say. A lot of young
people these days would say "nigga" like "You see three or
four niggas on the corner, man?" I'm just joking. Anyway, I
just wanted to explain that really quick, just in case
somebody was confused by that. But let's continue.
Bernie Mac:
If you out there this afternoon, you see about three or four
brothers talking, you might hear a conversation and it go
like this.
Tony Kaizen:
Alright. Now, before you listen to the dialogue, I want you
to notice the fact that Bernie is using the words
"motherfucker" and "motherfucking" repeatedly the word
"motherfucker" with the ER on the end - this word is a
noun. It describes a person, place or thing, right? The word
"motherfucking" with an ING on the end is something like an
adjective. But it's really just used to put emphasis on
whatever you're referring to at the time. And this is
obviously a very vulgar way of speaking, right? I know you
hear us use strong words like these very casually, but if
you're a non-native and you're learning the language, I
suggest you don't overuse curse words with people you don't
know very well because there's an art to using curse words
naturally, right? And it takes time for one to master that
art, okay? But anyway, let's get back to the clip. And
remember, motherfucker is a noun. Motherfucking is an
adjective.
Bernie Mac:
If you out there this afternoon, you see about three or four
brothers talking, you might hear a conversation and it go
like this. You seen that motherfucker Bobby?
That motherfucker owe me 35 motherfucking dollars. He told
me he (was) gonna pay my motherfucker money last
motherfucking week. I ain't seen this motherfucker yet. I'm
not gonna chase this motherfucker for my 35 motherfucking
dollars. I've called the motherfucker four motherfucking
times.
But the motherfucker won't call me back. I called his mama
the other motherfucking day. She gonna play like the
motherfucker wasn't in. I started to cuss her motherfucking
ass out but I want no motherfucking trouble. But
I'll tell you one motherfucking thing, the next
motherfucking time I see this motherfucker and he ain't got
my motherfucking money, I'm gon' bust his motherfucking
head. And I'm out this motherfucker!
Tony Kaizen:
Alright, if you're reading the transcript, it'll be much
easier to see how Bernie alternates between the words
"motherfucker" and "motherfucking" depending on who or what
he's referring to. And by the way, if you'd like to read a
transcript of all the podcast episodes, along with the
vocabulary Guide explaining advanced words and phrases that
you hear, you can visit lifeinenglish.net/community and sign
up to get access. But instead of going back and explaining
each line of that dialogue right there, I'm gonna read it to
you in standard English and hopefully you'll understand it
much better. Alright, if you see three or four guys standing
on a street corner, you might hear a conversation and it
goes like this. Hey, have you seen Bobby?
That guy owes me 35 dollars. He told me he was gonna pay me
my money last week and I haven't seen this guy yet. Now, I'm
not gonna chase this guy for my 35 dollars. I called him
four times, but the guy won't call me back. I called his
mother the other day and she acted as if the guy wasn't
home. And I almost cursed her right there on the phone but I
don't want any problems with anyone. But I'll tell you one
thing, the next time I see this guy and he doesn't have my
money, I'm gonna knock his ass out. And then Bernie says,
"I'm out this motherfucker!" but that part's not, you know,
it's not part of the dialogue. When someone says "I'm out"
in a context like this, it just means I'm leaving and you're
just listening to this so you can't see what happened but in
the clip, Bernie says, "I'm out this motherfucker!" And then
he literally left the stage at that point. And when he says,
"I'm out this motherfucker!" ,"motherfucker" in this case
means this place because I'm out means I'm leaving. This
motherfucker means this place so in standard English it's
like I'm leaving this place, the show is over, I'm gone, you
know? Hopefully that makes sense. Now, at this point, my
friend, I suggest you listen to the entire episode again to
make sure you understand everything that was said. Matter
fact, listen to all the episodes multiple times to ensure
you retain all this golden information. Now, I'd like to
thank you for your time and your attention, my friend. I
really hope you enjoyed this episode. This is Life in
English. I am your host, Tony Kaizen, and I'll talk to you
soon. Peace!